Come back in this video I would like to talk about table widgets and show you how you can use the table
widget and pretty much create a table in here.
So first of all let's get rid of all the code we don't need here.
So I want to be am I any more and I'm going to get rid of the slipcase.
So the only thing I actually want to have is what we have here and I don't need this button click anymore.
So we're going to create a very different application this time.
So let me save that and go back to cute creator because now I would like to use tables.
So instead of having all of these elements that I have in here I want only to have 8 tables so I will
get rid of this whole form lay out what we had and suddenly all of the buttons are gone as well.
And all of the labels and stuff.
And then I drag in the table widget so that we are table would do this and here and now if I double
click on it you can see it can change the columns or add columns I can add rows and I can add items.
But what I'm going to start with is columns.
So let's say I have these two columns and one is the city name and the other one is the inhabitants
hand be tense.
And now for the rows I'm going to create a new row.
And I'm just going to call this row zero and then I go to items such as you can see this is what I get.
And you call them you call them you roll.
So it didn't take the names that I had before but it at least has the structure that I had.
So let's say I enter Munich here and let's say Munich has one point nine million inhabitants might be
precise or not.
Then I want to add another row so I go back to Rose and this one will be my roll one.
Now I go back to iTunes and here for example and to Berlin which has roughly 4 million inhabitants and
that's pretty much it.
So if I press OK you see that the data is displayed here in my table.
So I'm going to make this table a little smaller or this whole view because I don't need any more than
that.
OK.
Now what I want to add is a button.
So I'm going to add a push button and top of it and just going to say Python action because what I want
to happen is when I press this button and I want to change something in my table.
All right now once we're done with this let's save it and now let's go back to PI charme where we need
to run the built in order to reproduce our UI.
And then we can run main.
So let's just do that real quick that we are solving We have Munich and with 1.9 million inhabitants
so as we enter a different value in here and suddenly it has six million five hundred and it's 46000
and so forth.
So I changed it and I can change it any time soon as you can see it could change that to being New York
for example and New York has something like I don't know 10 million inhabitants based on what you're
looking at and.
Yeah.
Now what I want to happen is when I press this button I want to change stuff in this table widget.
How do I do that.
Well first of all I need to have a method for that.
So I'm going to create a new method and this time I'm going to use the naming of heute because I'm really
just using cute anti-fun so I don't need any other imports so I'm just going to use the same naming
convention here.
So on push button click.
So once somebody press this button I want to execute something.
And for now I'm just going to say Button was clicked and now that by itself is not enough because we
need to connect that to the push button.
And if you remember how we did that it was pretty long texts but not that difficult.
So we just access the UI and from the UI the element that we want to connect.
And here we say which event it should be.
So when the click event comes up we want to connect that to self-taught on push button click.
So in this case it's important that we don't call this method but we just pass the method name because
if we actually call the method and here we get an error sort of we stop the application run it again
and you will see that we get an error here because one argument has unexpected type Monotype.
So I'm going to get rid of this and run it again.
And now you see that if I press this button button was clicked is displayed in my console.
OK.
So that's good.
But how do I actually change the value of my table.
Well I can do the following.
I can go in my method here and use self-taught.
You buy that table widget so I can access the table widget.
And here I need to set an item.
So as you can see there is a method called said item which me needs a row column and an item.
OK so let me enter those.
I'd say the roll should be zero the column should be zero.
And then just going to add something like Budapest's in here.
And that won't work because I'm entering a string here.
But what is actually expecting is in a queue table which food item.
So if I run that code and I press the button I should get a crash.
And actually I do get a crash but it somehow doesn't show me the error.
So it doesn't even show me what the problem was.
That is the worst of behaviors when the program just crashes and doesn't even give you the problem here.
But in order to understand a little more what's going on we could check out the said item method in
order to understand more what's going on.
So here is set to method requires a q t.
Widgets are cute widgets dot cue table widget item.
So this one right here.
And as I created this method actually told me that it needs that.
So let me create it again said I turn it can see it says self roll call them item.
And once I entered values here so let's say I want to enter the second value as you can see here displays
item should be of type q table widget item.
So that's exactly what we have here.
Cute.
The table would you add item.
But of course it needs to have a entry.
And here I'm going to say Budapest for example.
And now once somebody presses the button I also want to changed number that is displayed in there.
So here I I again need to use qued widgets that queue table widget item and then enter the value.
Now the value that it expects as it can see queue table widget item and string queue icon or queue table
widget items so you can enter multiple different versions in here so I'm just going to say something
like a number.
So I'm just going to enter a string as a number or a number as a string.
That's pretty much the way around.
OK so if I run that now and I execute my partner you can see now changed the value.
So now we went to Budapest and it changed the value of the inhabitants as well as easy as that.
So now you know how you can actually change values based on a button click.
So what does the said item do in general.
Well we want to change the table widget that we have and we want to set a particular item that we need
to tell and which row and which column we want to change something.
And if you want to know which order it is then you can always just call the method and it will help
you out.
So said Eitan entered something and you can see it starts with the row.
So zeroed the comma zero.
So row column and then it needs to Q2 which are at or Q table widget item here.
OK.
So we have the row then the column then we have the items so pretty much the entry of it.
And then you saw that these can be either numbered can be a string or can be and I can something like
that in order to in general even get a click button to do something or a button to do something.
We need to connect it.
So you see we had this button that we wanted to connect to something.
Then we said which event that should be so the click events are when somebody clicks on it and we connected
it to a specific method and we need to only pass the method name and not a method call in here.
And then we can just define whatever should happen once this button is pressed or once this method is
called.
And he will just change our table.
All right so I'd say we check out how to add an additional row here in the next video when pressing
the button we want to add a row and then we want to be able to enter data in there.
So that's what we're going to check out in the next video.
So see you there.